circleci/README.md, before:

### What is CI/CD?
CI/CD or CICD generally refers to the combined practices of continuous integration and either continuous delivery or continuous deployment
- `Continuous Integration (CI)` is the practice of automating the integration of code changes from multiple contributors and check the new code’s correctness by automated code quality tests like smoke, unit, integration.
- `Continuous Delivery (CD)` is the software development process of getting code changes into production quickly and safely.


### What is CircleCI?
CircleCI is a fully managed continuous integration and delivery platform which allows us to build, test or deploy our code on every check in.
<img src="./assets/cicd-process.png">

CircleCI uses a YAML configuration file to declare the pipeline and it lives under the project root `.circleci` folder with name `config.yml` (Default convention)

#### YAML in short:
<img src="./assets/yaml.jpg">
Let get familiar with some basic syntax that will frequently use for the configuration. 
Here we will compare with JSON so that we can easily understand which syntax is using for what.
<img src="./assets/json-vs-yaml.png">

### Getting Started
So, let's configure a pipeline for a mini [project](https://github.com/shamrat17/todo-nestjs.git). We will start from minimal configuration.
- First of all, login to circleci with github
- Setup project
- Create a config file `.circleci/config.yml` to your project root with a minimal content of
```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:10
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: echo "A first shell command"
      - run:
          name: A Hello-World Step
          command: |
            echo 'Hello World!'
            echo 'This is the delivery pipeline'
      - run:
          name: Code Has Arrived
          command: |
            ls -al
            echo '^^^That should look familiar^^^'

```
Let's explain a bit very shortly what's in the `config.yml` we will explain more later.

- `version`: Specifying which circleci config version we are using.
- `jobs`: All job will be defined under the jobs block
    - `build`: is the name of our job
        - `docker`: This is kind of a executor (Where the job steps will run)
            - `- image`: Specifying our docker image (it can be multiple)
        - `steps`: is the set of commands that will run step by step based on our definition.
            - `checkout`: Is actually pulling your code from github
            - `run`: This is all about shell so we can write our any command. you can imagine like running command in a terminal. As you can see there is a 2 way of defining it. One is simply define the command and another one is (This is basically the standard way)
                - `name`: A name of your command.
                - `command`: This is holding your shell command, write down `|` in order to add multiple lines.

Let's push our code and see what happens on circleci.
<Image src="./assets/init-build.png">
So we can see a job called build is passed (Green color refer to pass red is failed) and the steps are named based on the given name/command. 
Now if we expand the job, we can see the echo is printed in the console.
<Image src="./assets/init-build-steps.png">


Now we will extend our config little more based on our goal. So, what is our goal? Our goal is while someone commit code then 
1. Run lint to check programmatic and stylistic errors. (CI part)
2. Run tests to verify integrity. (CI part)
3. If tests are passed then build and upload image. (CD part)
4. Deploy it when it is realise branch. (CD part)

Okay, let's implement the linter and tests first, will do more incrementally.

```yaml
version: 2.1
executors:
  node:
    docker:
      - image: 'circleci/node:12'
    shell: /bin/bash
    working_directory: ~/app
    resource_class: small

jobs:
  npm-install:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Install Node.js dependencies with Npm
          command: npm ci

  npm-lint:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Lint the source code
          command: npm run lint

  unit-tests:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Unit Tests
          command: |
            npm run test:cov
          no_output_timeout: 5m

workflows:
  version: 2
  build:
    jobs:
      - npm-install
      - npm-lint:
          requires:
            - npm-install
      - unit-tests:
          requires:
            - npm-install
```

Here we are seeing a couple of new things, what those are

- `Workflows` allow you to define the sequence of your job and concurrency. You can see under workflow we've written `npm-install`, `npm-lint` and `unit-tests` job. We will talk more about workflow strategy in next config.

Let's commit some codes and see what happens.

<Image src="./assets/workflow-1.png">
<Image src="./assets/workflow-1-error.png">

So, as we can see our `npn-install` job is passed but `npm-lint` and `unit-tests` is failed. Why it failed? okay, let me explore a bit. We can clearly see that the command we are executing that is not available but why? In the `npn-install` job we have pulled the code is not available to the `npm-lint` job? that means is it running under new environment? (container) So, do we need to checkout the code again and install the dependency? Wait, no it should not be like that. Okay, then how we will persist our workspace so that it can be used by any other job? Let me add some new config to do so.

```yaml
version: 2.1
executors:
  node:
    docker:
      - image: 'circleci/node:12'
    shell: /bin/bash
    working_directory: ~/app
    resource_class: small

jobs:
  npm-install:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - checkout
      - restore_cache:
          # Find a cache corresponding to this specific package-lock.json checksum
          # when this file is changed, this key will fail
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package-lock.json" }}
      - run:
          name: Install Node.js dependencies with Npm
          command: npm ci
      - save_cache:
          # save the dependency cache with defined key
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package-lock.json" }}
          paths:
            - ./node_modules
      - persist_to_workspace:
          root: ~/app
          paths:
            - .

  npm-lint:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - attach_workspace:
          at: ~/app
      - run:
          name: Lint the source code
          command: npm run lint

  unit-tests:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - attach_workspace:
          at: ~/app
      - run:
          name: Unit Tests
          command: |
            npm run test:cov
          no_output_timeout: 5m
      - store_artifacts:
          path: ~/app/coverage
          destination: coverage

workflows:
  version: 2
  build:
    jobs:
      - npm-install
      - npm-lint:
          requires:
            - npm-install
      - unit-tests:
          requires:
            - npm-install
```

Have a look newly added stuff
- `persist_to_workspace`: Special step used to persist a temporary file to be used by another job in the workflow.
- `attach_workspace`: Special step used to attach the workflow’s workspace to the current container. The full contents of the workspace are downloaded and copied into the directory the workspace is being attached at.
- `store_artifacts`: Step uploads coverage artifacts: a directory (~/app/coverage). After the artifacts successfully upload, we can view them in the Artifacts tab of the Job page.

Now let's commit the latest config and see if it works.

<Image src="./assets/workflow-2.png">

Job `npm-install`
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-npm-install.png">

Job `npm-lint`
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-npm-lint.png">

Job `unit-tests`
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-unit-test.png">
Expand view
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-unit-test-expand.png">
Artifacts view
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-unit-test-artifacts.png">

It works.
<!-- Okay, according to our plan now we will move to the `docker-image-build` job. -->

### Further More
- Using Orbs: [Link](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/using-orbs/)
- Commands: [Link] (https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/reusing-config/)
- Advanced Config: [Link] (https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/adv-config/#section=configuration)

Commit message:

Updated with cicd blog link

circleci/README.md, after:

### What is CI/CD?
CI/CD or CICD generally refers to the combined practices of continuous integration and either continuous delivery or continuous deployment
- `Continuous Integration (CI)` is the practice of automating the integration of code changes from multiple contributors and check the new code’s correctness by automated code quality tests like smoke, unit, integration.
- `Continuous Delivery (CD)` is the software development process of getting code changes into production quickly and safely.


### What is CircleCI?
CircleCI is a fully managed continuous integration and delivery platform which allows us to build, test or deploy our code on every check in.
<img src="./assets/cicd-process.png">

CircleCI uses a YAML configuration file to declare the pipeline and it lives under the project root `.circleci` folder with name `config.yml` (Default convention)

#### YAML in short:
<img src="./assets/yaml.jpg">
Let get familiar with some basic syntax that will frequently use for the configuration. 
Here we will compare with JSON so that we can easily understand which syntax is using for what.
<img src="./assets/json-vs-yaml.png">

### Getting Started
So, let's configure a pipeline for a mini [project](https://github.com/shamrat17/todo-nestjs.git). We will start from minimal configuration.
- First of all, login to circleci with github
- Setup project
- Create a config file `.circleci/config.yml` to your project root with a minimal content of
```yml
version: 2.1
jobs:
  build:
    docker:
      - image: circleci/node:10
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run: echo "A first shell command"
      - run:
          name: A Hello-World Step
          command: |
            echo 'Hello World!'
            echo 'This is the delivery pipeline'
      - run:
          name: Code Has Arrived
          command: |
            ls -al
            echo '^^^That should look familiar^^^'

```
Let's explain a bit very shortly what's in the `config.yml` we will explain more later.

- `version`: Specifying which circleci config version we are using.
- `jobs`: All job will be defined under the jobs block
    - `build`: is the name of our job
        - `docker`: This is kind of a executor (Where the job steps will run)
            - `- image`: Specifying our docker image (it can be multiple)
        - `steps`: is the set of commands that will run step by step based on our definition.
            - `checkout`: Is actually pulling your code from github
            - `run`: This is all about shell so we can write our any command. you can imagine like running command in a terminal. As you can see there is a 2 way of defining it. One is simply define the command and another one is (This is basically the standard way)
                - `name`: A name of your command.
                - `command`: This is holding your shell command, write down `|` in order to add multiple lines.

Let's push our code and see what happens on circleci.
<Image src="./assets/init-build.png">
So we can see a job called build is passed (Green color refer to pass red is failed) and the steps are named based on the given name/command. 
Now if we expand the job, we can see the echo is printed in the console.
<Image src="./assets/init-build-steps.png">


Now we will extend our config little more based on our goal. So, what is our goal? Our goal is while someone commit code then 
1. Run lint to check programmatic and stylistic errors. (CI part)
2. Run tests to verify integrity. (CI part)
3. If tests are passed then build and upload image. (CD part)
4. Deploy it when it is realise branch. (CD part)

Okay, let's implement the linter and tests first, will do more incrementally.

```yaml
version: 2.1
executors:
  node:
    docker:
      - image: 'circleci/node:12'
    shell: /bin/bash
    working_directory: ~/app
    resource_class: small

jobs:
  npm-install:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - checkout
      - run:
          name: Install Node.js dependencies with Npm
          command: npm ci

  npm-lint:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Lint the source code
          command: npm run lint

  unit-tests:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - run:
          name: Unit Tests
          command: |
            npm run test:cov
          no_output_timeout: 5m

workflows:
  version: 2
  build:
    jobs:
      - npm-install
      - npm-lint:
          requires:
            - npm-install
      - unit-tests:
          requires:
            - npm-install
```

Here we are seeing a couple of new things, what those are

- `Workflows` allow you to define the sequence of your job and concurrency. You can see under workflow we've written `npm-install`, `npm-lint` and `unit-tests` job. We will talk more about workflow strategy in next config.

Let's commit some codes and see what happens.

<Image src="./assets/workflow-1.png">
<Image src="./assets/workflow-1-error.png">

So, as we can see our `npn-install` job is passed but `npm-lint` and `unit-tests` is failed. Why it failed? okay, let me explore a bit. We can clearly see that the command we are executing that is not available but why? In the `npn-install` job we have pulled the code is not available to the `npm-lint` job? that means is it running under new environment? (container) So, do we need to checkout the code again and install the dependency? Wait, no it should not be like that. Okay, then how we will persist our workspace so that it can be used by any other job? Let me add some new config to do so.

```yaml
version: 2.1
executors:
  node:
    docker:
      - image: 'circleci/node:12'
    shell: /bin/bash
    working_directory: ~/app
    resource_class: small

jobs:
  npm-install:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - checkout
      - restore_cache:
          # Find a cache corresponding to this specific package-lock.json checksum
          # when this file is changed, this key will fail
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package-lock.json" }}
      - run:
          name: Install Node.js dependencies with Npm
          command: npm ci
      - save_cache:
          # save the dependency cache with defined key
          key: dependency-cache-{{ checksum "package-lock.json" }}
          paths:
            - ./node_modules
      - persist_to_workspace:
          root: ~/app
          paths:
            - .

  npm-lint:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - attach_workspace:
          at: ~/app
      - run:
          name: Lint the source code
          command: npm run lint

  unit-tests:
    executor: node
    steps:
      - attach_workspace:
          at: ~/app
      - run:
          name: Unit Tests
          command: |
            npm run test:cov
          no_output_timeout: 5m
      - store_artifacts:
          path: ~/app/coverage
          destination: coverage

workflows:
  version: 2
  build:
    jobs:
      - npm-install
      - npm-lint:
          requires:
            - npm-install
      - unit-tests:
          requires:
            - npm-install
```

Have a look newly added stuff
- `persist_to_workspace`: Special step used to persist a temporary file to be used by another job in the workflow.
- `attach_workspace`: Special step used to attach the workflow’s workspace to the current container. The full contents of the workspace are downloaded and copied into the directory the workspace is being attached at.
- `store_artifacts`: Step uploads coverage artifacts: a directory (~/app/coverage). After the artifacts successfully upload, we can view them in the Artifacts tab of the Job page.

Now let's commit the latest config and see if it works.

<Image src="./assets/workflow-2.png">

Job `npm-install`
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-npm-install.png">

Job `npm-lint`
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-npm-lint.png">

Job `unit-tests`
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-unit-test.png">
Expand view
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-unit-test-expand.png">
Artifacts view
<Image src="./assets/workflow-2-unit-test-artifacts.png">

It works.
<!-- Okay, according to our plan now we will move to the `docker-image-build` job. -->

### Further More
- Using Orbs. [Link](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/using-orbs/)
- Commands. [Link] (https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/reusing-config/)
- Advanced Config. [Link] (https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/adv-config/#section=configuration)
- CI/CD for Node.js projects: using CircleCI, Kubernetes, and Docker with deployment. [Link](https://circleci.com/blog/electron-builds/)
